# BlockChain
A blockchain project for my university.

# Instructions on installation.
Python 3.6+ is needed for this. you can find the DL link here. https://www.python.org/downloads/

pip or pip3 is also required. Make sure that is included with your python download.

you can use the command "pip install Flask" and "pip install requests" to install both of those libraries that we need.

Either cURL or Postman is also needed for this. cURL you can get with your Linux distro you are running, and the Download link for Postman can be found here. https://www.postman.com/downloads/.

# Usage
run the command "python CS463BChain.py". or "python3 CS463BChain.py", whatever your OS wants you to do.
This will launch the API on your localhost port 5555. If you wish to change the port, you can add " -p [port number]" as an argument to the command.

Once the program is launched, you may either use cURL or Postman (dont exit the application) Instructions will follow.

# Postman
Once you are finished downloading and installing the free version of postman, open it. Under the "Launchpad" tab in the top center, click "Create Request"
Make sure you are making a GET request.
In the enter url field you can enter in a few urls, and you will see the results.
127.0.0.1:[port number you chose]/mineblock     This will mine a new block
127.0.0.1:[port number you chose]/wholechain    This will show you the chain of all the blocks.

Keep in mid all of this data is in JSON format!

POST:
If you switch to POST Method, you can enter this link.
127.0.0.1:[port number you chose]/new    This will generate a new transaction of your choosing, and you must enter in the data in the JSON field below in this format.

{
    "theSender": "[your choosing]",
    "theRecipient": "[your choosing]", 
    "theAmount": [your choosing]
}

make sure to keep the quotes, and select raw, and JSON from the dropdown menu right above the entry field.

# cURL

my apologies but I'm not very familiar with cURL, I know it works, but I haven't troubleshot any commands.
I believe something as simple as "curl 127.0.0.1:[port number you chose]/mineblock" will work for the get requests.

# Conclusion

I hope you have fun with this! This is not a decentralized blockchain, but rather a centralized one that we can interact with over HTTP. All of the "blocks" contain data that a typical cryptocurrency block would. Timestamps, transactions, hashes, and proofs of work are all there. The new hashes are generated by encoding the entire JSON data of the previous block and hashing it via SHA-256.
